---
layout: post
title:  "Why I want to learn software development"
date:   2016-06-03 14:03:23 +0000
---


So, I sat down yesterday to write this post and discovered that answering this question requires a lot more introspection and care than I originally thought.  It proved quite difficult to put into words, but ultimately worth the research and self-examination. Knowing that I really want to be here is a great start, but it's also important to really examine how and why if I expect to stay happy and fufilled in a career in this field.  As I started looking at the path that led me to today, it became clear that it closely resembles the map from the Sunday comic Family Circus showing how one of the kids spent his day (all over the damn place).  I started looking at my enduring interests in life: most of my childhood I could be found either nose deep in a book or running around outside trying to catch and study any living thing that caught my interest (my first pet was a praying mantis).  As an adult, my fascination in living things led me to a bachelors degree in Biological Sciences; and an emerging fascination with languages a bachelor's in French. I adored being a student so much I stayed for a master's in Environmental Science and Management.  My work in GIS (geographic information systems, digital mapping) software during graduate school led me to building geographic databases professionally for local water utilities, and if this sounds like a far cry from biology, I can tell you I sure felt it.  Naturally, I had a really difficult time trying to connect these things in any reliable way to software development.  I reached out to my fellow students for help, telling them I had no idea how to express how I got here.  One generous student came up with the suggestion that maybe the pattern in my life is that...there might be no pattern!  With that insight, we all agreed that one reason we all had in common for being here is that we have a deep desire to learn and always continue learning.

Having only that really broad and somewhat vague realization to work with, I began to approach this question from the other direction think about what exactly what software development means to me.  What have I found here since that first "Programming for Scientists" course I took in graduate school that sparked this whole adventure?  I've found a profound sense of awe!  When first learning how to interact with the command line and how navigate my computer via text commands only, that blinking square at the prompt felt like the torch Indiana Jones might hold up searching some ancient ruins.  It felt like exploring a whole new world that I had never seen before but had been there the whole time.  Another wonderful thing I've discovered here is a widespread sense of humor.  That same night poking around in the terminal using the command line, I entered an incorrect command into the terminal's text editor, Nano, and the thing actually mumbled at me!!!  The exact words that appeard at the bottom of the screen were "XOFF ignored, mumble mumble."  I can't wait to find more easter eggs like this, I know they're out there.  This pervasive sense of general mischeif and humor I've found at every turn in my learning.  Lastly, I love the way that working on computer programs has actually changed the way I think about solving problems.  It's strengthened my belief that when I see something difficult I want to do, that there will always be a way to do it.  With enough reading, poking around, and possibly breaking things, anything is possible.  

So far, I've had moments of great frustration attempting to get a program to compile, or a test to pass, or puzzling over why something isn't working.  These moments are always tempered by the feeling of sheer elation when I finally stumble my way to the solution.  After writing this post and having a deeper look at why I'm here, I'm very excited to keep stumbling on.
